[Music]
Bloomberg Audio Studios podcasts, radio,
news.
[Music]
>> Hello and welcome to another episode of
the OddLotss podcast. I'm Joe Weisenthal
>> and I'm Tracy Aloway. Tracy, we have a
special episode of the podcast today
which needs very little introduction,
but we are speaking uh to the mayor.
>> I love our transition to local city
reporters.
>> It's really fun learning about our city.
Mayor Adams, New York City Mayor Adams,
thank you so much for coming on OddLots.
>> Thank you. Thank you. I think this is my
second time this week or was it last
week? The days go to fast, but it's
great here being at Bloomberg.
>> It's f Thank you so much. I read an
article recently from the journalist
Derek Thompson. He was talking about the
death of partying in America. People
apparently don't party as much as they
used to. New York City people still
party, but like, you know, there aren't
as many 24-hour clubs as they used to
be. Apparently, there's fewer 4 a.m.
liquor licenses, etc. You're a man who
appreciates night life and partying.
What happened? Why don't people party as
much as they used to?
>> Great question. And first of all, is why
do I appreciate the night life? It's a
$30 billion industry
>> and we viewed the city often as mayors
we viewed it as 9 to5 but it's not. When
I was a police officer I work overnights
midnights and when I go into a night
life a restaurant I walk in the kitchen
kitchen I talk to the dishwasher. I talk
to the bus boy or girl. Those are
everyday workingass people. And I knew
when I came back after co I had to turn
our night life around. And we did that.
You can't get reservations in the city
anymore. Broadway had the best 12 months
in the history of the city. And part of
coming back out at night is what is our
signature? New York, the city that
>> there's no party crisis.
>> No, it's not.
>> Still shuts down earlier than it used
to.
>> No, it does. And and part of the problem
I believe you have far too many people
on community boards that have been for a
long time and they're not connecting the
economics with their desire really not
to have any night life. Night life is
important of the community. It's allowed
to let off some steam networking uh
really uh collaborating. Listen, you
come to New York, you're going to find
your mate here because the diversity of
this great city. I wanted to ask about
some other specific policy proposals,
specifically housing and you know I went
to your website and I I saw the sort of
summary of your proposals and then I
clicked into learn more
>> and it took me to your previous
accomplishments under your first term.
So I'm really curious if you could maybe
broaden out some of your housing
policies like what exactly are you
talking about here? Well, first let's
let's look at the fact that when you
look at shovels in the ground and what
we're proposing in our resoning,
including the most comprehensive housing
reform in the history of the city, 60
years previously was the first time we
really started looking at housing and
some of the reform. We're going to build
more housing in one term than the 12
years under Bloomberg, the eight years
under Delasio combined in one term. And
$25 billion we're putting into our
10-year capital plan. In addition to
that, for the first time in history, we
are including NICHA uh uh housing into
the plan. So, we we're looking at a
couple of different locations. Number
one, we saw the federal and state
government walk away from NICHA. Uh
Nicha has a $88 billion dollar capital
problem. We had to find new ways of
building on NICHA. We did the land
trust. Many people tried, we got it
done. Uh we're also doing the RAD
programs. Many people have attempted to
do it. We got it done. The amazing
project that we are getting ready to do
in Reese houses where we're going to
tear down old buildings, build new
buildings, and without zero displacement
of tenants. That's how we deal with the
Nicha issue. Then we realized that if we
want to build more housing, we have to
build everywhere. It was unbelievable
how many elected officials were stopping
that building. 59 community boards, 10
of those 59 were building more
affordable housing than 49 combined. So
our goal now is to build all over the
city. And that's what city of Yes was
about a little more housing in every
community that we could allow residents
and tenants to stay in their community
instead of leaving the city. So our goal
in the future as we move forward with
forward we want to build faster. We want
to build more. Drive by Willis Point
right now 2400 units of affordable
housing that's there. New soccer stadium
that's paid private dollars a new school
new open space. And you see the
buildings actually going up in the same
term. So our focus is building more and
build building everywhere. The first
time I ever heard about controversy at
the Elizabeth Street Garden was in 20
2018, I think. And then now it's 2025
and you've come out and you said, "Okay,
like let's move on. Let's not continue
to fight this." But setting aside
whether it was it's right to use that
space for housing or not. Like setting
aside these questions, why does it take
seven years or longer to come to answers
on these questions?
>> Great question. And if you if you do an
analysis over all the things that we've
done, we've land pl we landed planes
that no one else was able to do. When
you rid all the noise, take all the
noise out of the administration and just
say, "Okay, let's look at the raw
numbers." Like you said, your your
listeners are sophisticated. Look at the
raw numbers. Uh we were able to land a
plane on Governor Governor's Island. We
were able to land a plane in Sunset
Sunset Park. We're able to land the
plane on these difficult tasks. So what
did we do when we brought in Randy
Mastro as the first deputy mayor? He was
he looked at it. He says, "How can we
leverage this space? How could we walk
away with a win?" We did. Uh Elizabeth
Street Garden was going to do about 125
units of housing. 120 units. We're going
to get 625
units of housing. And we got
>> elsewhere after years of fighting about
it.
>> Yes. This is New York. Let's let's be
clear about this city.
Wherever you try to do, we got 8.5
million people. We have 35 million
opinions. You know, you always going to
have New Yorkers, no matter what you
attempt to do, but how do we leverage
the best Florida city? So, we took the
concerns of Elizabeth Street Garden.
People were concerned about that. They
wanted to hold on to the garden and I
said, "You got to give me a plan that I
could deal with the number one crisis I
have in this city, and that is housing."
and we were able to leverage that space
and walk away with over 600 additional
units of affordable housing. That's a
win no matter how you how you how you
talk about it.
>> What's the broad lesson from that
experience? Because when we were talking
about nightlife just then, you know, it
sounds like community groups and special
interest groups are still an impediment
or an obstacle to some of the things
that you seem to want to do. Is there
anything you're thinking about to maybe
like encourage more cooperation, build
up that city of yes idea?
>> Yes. And you know what we witness in the
city uh particularly in our elected
officials? Our elected officials on
Monday they say housing is right, but on
Tuesday they say not in my district. We
don't want to hear.
>> And if I walked away with anything in
the last 3 years and seven months is
that you have to ignore the noise. You
have to do what's best long term for the
city and it's a retrospective
appreciation of and if you do an
analysis not only in housing look how
far I was away from where uh the noise
of the leadership of Democratic party
when I was take talking about taking uh
severe mental health illness off our
streets I got a unbelievable push back
when I talk about investing in the
police department when others were
talking defund the police uh everyone
was pushing back and now we see record
levels of decrease and crime. Uh when I
was talking about the cannabis fight uh
that we had to do something about it. So
when you look at where I was even in
housing, everyone was pushing back on
city of Yes. And today all came to where
we were. And when you live these
experiences, you have a different
eyesight than others. And so uh what I
want for my local community groups and
organizations is to understand we're in
the city together. And far too often, uh
folks said that listen, I have my
backyard. I have my park. I have all
that I want. I don't want any additional
people here. But if you do that, then
you're going to hurt the long-term plan
of this city.
>> So, your main opponent in this uh race
has made affordability the sort of
cornerstone. And you've talked about
obviously the expansion of affordable
housing in New York City under your
administration, which is real.
Nonetheless,
>> New York City is a crazy expensive place
to live.
>> Yes.
>> I think it's worth it cuz I think it's
the best city in the world. So, it's
like, you know what? I'll pay the uh
high cost of housing here because I love
New York City. But do we just have to
accept, you know, sort of in the same
way you said, okay, you know, New York's
always going to have 35 million opinions
for 8.5 million residents. That's New
York City. Do we just all have to accept
that the city has to be incredibly
expensive?
>> No. No, we we don't. And what government
must do is utilize their powers to help
workingclass people. And when you think
about it, that's what we have done. We
put $30 billion back into workingclass
people. And we looked at what is driving
the cost. Number one, as we talked,
affordable housing was one area. And
we're doing that. We're building it. We
break breaking records. Year 1, year
two, and year three, we build more
affordable housing individual years than
any other administration in history. But
look at the other areas. Uh what's the
number one cause of bankruptcy? Medical
debt. We are excusing medical debt for
low-income New Yorkers, foster care
children, 600 to 700 age out every year.
They slip through the cracks. They don't
get the support that they deserve. We're
paying their college tuition and we're
giving them life coaches until they're
21 instead of aging out at 18. So, they
don't slip through the cracks. Or what
hurts women the most, but families in
particular, child care. We dropped the
cost of child care from $220 a week to
less I a month to less than $20 a month.
We were the first one in 20 years to
drop the earning uh to increase the
earned income tax credit. We're paying
for highspeed broadband in lowincome
housing in Niger and other uh low local
in the process. Reduce the cost of using
our subway system for lowincome New
Yorkers. So the real message is I can't
handle the price of bread, but I could
put bread back in the pockets of New
Yorkers. And we've done it at the sum of
$30 billion. So it's easy to talk about
pie in the sky ideas that that is not
within the span of the control of the
mayor like free buses. Free buses uh is
a $3 billion price tag. And if you're
stating that the foundation of your plan
is based on increasing taxes on high 1%
earnest when in fact you don't have the
authority to do that. You know who has
the authority? Assemblymen.
My opponent is an assemblyman. If he
couldn't get it done as the assemblyman,
how is he going to get it done as a
mayor? Particularly when the governor
who signs off on it stated that she's
not raising income taxes. New York City
is the highest income tax in the
country. The state is the highest in the
country. And so what I did put money
back in the pockets. Do you know there's
no no income tax for low-income New
Yorkers in the city because of my ax to
tax? That is how you look at the power
of the mayor's office and say, "How do I
help workingclass people?" I'm blown
away that he has hijacked the narrative
of being a working-class mayor and
putting money back in affordability
issue when I've done it. That's my
record is clear on putting money back in
the pockets of working-class people.
>> Since we're talking about your
opponent's policies, Zoran Mdani, you've
said that New Yorkers don't understand
what socialism is. Can you give us your
definition of socialism? Like what is
socialism to you?
>> Well, first I would say this. 70% of New
Yorkers like the theme and concept of
socialism. Socialism. And many people if
you were to ask uh they would tell you
they never been to a socialist country.
I've been to a communist and socialist
country. I've been to Venezuela. I've
been to Cuba. I know where Rational uh
books are. Uh I think it is the concept
that you're going to take uh money from
one area of the population and equal it
out across the board and many
governmentrun loces and facilities such
as supermarkets. Now, when you do that
in in in concept, it sounds good. But if
you open a governmentrun supermarket,
you're gonna kill the bodega industry.
you're going to kill the independent
supermarket industries. So I think the
whole concept of believing as though uh
resources from the top end that those
who believe that we should not have any
billionaires in this city uh which I
just don't it doesn't balance out
because when you look at where the tax
dollars come from and spreading
spreading the wealth if you want to use
that classification across the entire
entire uh population that doesn't work
for me has never worked anywhere on the
globe. There's not one country we can
point to that says that this concept has
been successful.
>> I mean, we do have progressive taxes
though. You just said that lower income
New Yorkers don't have to pay New York
tax. So, there is an element of that
here. Like, is there a point at which
it's too much or like what exactly is
the issue?
>> When you say it's too much, explain it
to me more.
>> Like, is there a point at which the
redistributive effects
>> flips into socialism?
>> Yeah. Flips into socialism.
>> Well, I I think so. I think there's a
balance. And I like to say all the time,
I want the person who drives the
limousine to get a fair wage and be able
to provide for his family. And I want
the person that sits in the back seat of
the limousine to be able to use his
discretionary dollars or her
discretionary dollars. When you look at
the billionaires in this city that
everyone wants to demonize, they're the
ones who pay into their philanthropic
actions into our museums. They're the
ones that sponsor like the Robin Hood
Foundation to deal with where people are
slipping through the cracks. Uh they're
the ones in their tax dollars are paying
for our teachers and our firefighters
and those who are on the low economic
end. That perfect financial ecosystem is
what makes a city like this great. So if
your position is that particularly in an
atmosphere where you now could run your
organizations and entities outside the
city, you can easily go to Connecticut,
New Jersey or Miami, which we lost a
great deal of high income earners. If
your position is we don't want you here
in our city, ideally that's attractive
to people to hear we're getting rid of
all the billionaires. But when you drill
down in the numbers, those billionaires
are keeping the lights on. And because
we have billionaires, we're able to do
things like ask the tax for the working
class.
[Music]
Going back to something you said
earlier, you're talking about federal
funding, federal support for NICHA, the
public housing. Should any mayor of New
York City currently um should the mayor
have a oppositional relationship with
Trump? A lot of people want that. A lot
of people want the mayor to stand as a
bull work to some extent against Trump's
policy. You obviously uh benefited from
the fact that he uh dropped charges or
his DOJ dropped charges against you.
There's been cooperation uh in terms of
ICE on Rikers. How do you think about
the fact that whether you know this sort
of sort of uh yeah dempifying New York
City for both the citizens and also
undocumented residents? You know, the
most dangerous thing that being a mayor
mayor during this time is people read
headlines and not the full scope, you
know, and that's unfortunate. Uh, when
you think about it, sometimes you tell a
lie long enough, it becomes the truth.
And when you look at the definition of
the relationship I I have with the
current president, everyone is ignoring
the relationship I have with President
Biden. I call myself the Biden of
Brooklyn. Everyone
>> I watched that video. I saw that I saw
that clip. I've watched it like 10
times. I'll have to uh because we had a
good relationship and I like the
president. Do I believe there were those
in his administration that participated
in lawfare? He actually said it. He said
his justice department uh was
politicized when he pardoned his son. He
knew what was happening there. But Biden
came to the city and spent the whole day
with me when I was dealing with law
enforcement issues and we didn't have an
ATF head, someone to be in charge of the
uh alcoh alcohol, tobacco um and
firearms. And he appointed someone, he
visited my crisis management teams. He
sat down and spoke with me about going
after violence, which was the issue that
I ran on. And so the same to goes to for
this president. I didn't know Donald
Trump. A lot of people don't realize
that. I didn't know him until I met him
at the uh Alfred E. Smith dinner and he
spoke with me. He was on the campaign
trail prior to even meeting me saying
it's wrong what they doing to this mayor
uh in New York in New York City. And he
he saw what was happening and when he
came into office, the same things I was
saying about dangerous migrants and
asylum seekers pre-election, I was
saying post election. And when I walked
out of the voting booth on election day
and the microphone was in my face and
they said, "Who did you vote for?" I
said, "VP Harris." I was very clear. You
know, did I disagree with what I saw the
Democratic party was doing? Yes. But I
still remained uh loyal to do what was
what I thought was right to do. So when
you fast forward to today, u we took the
administration to court more than any
other mayor in the country. No other
mayor has gone to court as much as I
have pushing back on the policies. But
when we needed the president of the
United States to look at a project we
had in Sunset Park or Windfall, billions
of dollars investment of 500,000 homes
were going to use the energy 1,500 union
jobs. I flew to Washington and sat down
with the president and said, "Mr.
President, we can't have this this this
project destroyed." He lifted the stop
work order. That project is now moving
forward. That's what mayors of big
cities are supposed to do. Now, I can
pout in the corner and just call the
president names and say, "Well, you know
what? People are upset over the outcome
of the election." But how does that help
New York? How does it help New York to
communicate and coordinate to go after
dangerous people? We have a We had
dangerous Venezuelan gangs in the city.
They were forcing women who are migrants
and undocumented into prostitution. I
coordinated with federal authorities. We
took down the 27 gang members. We were
able to for for gun possession and other
dangerous crimes. So, it is my job as
the mayor of the biggest city in America
to sit down and not war with the
president, but work with the president
to deliver for the people of this city.
This is the perfect segue for me to ask
something that might seem slightly
random, but actually I think it's
relevant because you've recommended
before that New Yorkers should read Cash
Patel's book, All About the Deep State.
Yes.
>> What do you think about the Trump
administration's refusal to release the
Epstein files?
>> I would love to see what's in those
Epstein files. You know, I think we all
do. You know, I'm I'm eager to look at
UFOs. You know, I'm there's so many
history. I'm still trying to figure out
who kid Kennedy. uh you know
>> well that was another theory for like
what's going on here because a lot of
people are really confused because for
years this was a
>> it was a campaign promise basically.
>> Yeah. And then suddenly it's like it's a
hoax. What do you do you have a you have
a you have a guess for what's going on
here?
>> Not at all. Uh I don't know if his
advisers security personnel uh advised
otherwise or timing I don't I have no
idea. Uh I look forward to seeing
there's so many deep secrets in America
that I think we all want to know and
it's imperative that as much as we can
find out as possible and I want to talk
about cash C cash's book which I thought
was a good book. Uh people laugh at the
terminology of a deep state. Uh but it
is we have people in government who have
been in government through presidents
through mayors through governors and
they're very arrogant. They believe they
are the elected. They believe they
answer to no one. They believe that they
are able to hold up projects that they
don't like. And I saw that firsthand uh
as the mayor. And they're connected to
reporters. They're connected to uh
prosecutors and they're connected to be
able to they write a letter on you in a
minute. They get a story planted on in a
minute and leaks. And I saw it and how
it operates. Now think about this for a
moment. Everybody let it go over their
head. The Southern District of New York
classified themselves as sovereign. I
mean, we need to really think about that
as sovereign. There's no sovereign
entities in America. Everyone responds
to someone. If you believe you have to
report to no one, even Maine Justice,
you could do whatever you want. That's
unacceptable. And that should outrage
every American that any entity with that
level of prosecutoal power that can
really disrupt your life. You know,
people didn't read my indictment. I was
indicted for calling the fire department
asking them to do a building inspection,
not to pass
what I ran on. I ran on making the FDNY
respond to businesses that could not
open. and they connected it to, well,
you had a bunch of of upgrades when when
you paid for your travel and we're going
to now turn that into bribery and we're
gonna put you in jail for 33 years. Come
on.
>> I want to go back to uh ICE for a
second. I take your point absolutely
about violent criminals and the need to
address them whether they're uh migrants
or not. But obviously, you know, there's
ICE raids happening across the country,
including nonviolent but undocumented
migrants. New York City has a long
history of being a self-desated
sanctuary city. M setting aside the sort
of violent criminal element, what is the
degree to which you know this is going
to continue presumably going forward at
least through the rest of the Trump
administration. What is the degree to
which you're inclined to cooperate with
the administration on nonviolent
undocumented migrants?
>> We don't we're very clear and as you
mentioned this city is a sanctuary city
and understand sanctuary city is not a
law. It is a belief that we believe in
this city. If you're in New York and you
buy a bottle of water and you pay taxes
on that, those taxes go to your goods
and services. So, in this city, if you
are documented or not, we don't question
you on that. You could go get medical
assistance if you need it. Your child
will be able to go to school. You can
call the police if you're a victim of a
crime. You could make sure that you
could walk the streets of the city of
New York. And that is what our entire
belief system is. We will never
cooperate or collaborate with ICE on
civil enforcement. That is against the
law. We never done and we never will. We
will coordinate with them when it comes
down to criminal enforcement because we
need to be very clear on this and I
think this has been distorted. ICE is
not a criminal organization. People
could dislike. I don't like the IRS
taking money out of my pockets, but it's
still a federal agency and it's needed
to make sure our tax dollars are
collected and spent. ICE is not a
criminal organization. ICE is a federal
law enforcement agency. Our city has
determined that parts of their duties we
are not allowed to collaborate with. We
respect that and we never will. But I'm
going to collaborate with law
enforcement agencies, HSI, FBI, ICE, uh,
when it comes down to keeping this city
safe. These gangs were extremely
dangerous. And you had others who were
committing real crimes in this city. And
I don't care if you're documented or
undocumented. After 22 years of being in
the law enforcement community, I'm going
to keep New Yorkers safe. But isn't
ISIS's definition of a crime that
includes basically anyone who entered
the country illegally? Right. That's the
problem. They're not distinguishing
between gang members, violent criminals,
and people that, you know, are just
trying to work.
>> Great question. Because it's a it's a it
is a crime to enter and remain. That's a
crime.
>> We don't collaborate on that. Okay.
because it's clear in our law that uh
certain even crimes of that nature we
will not collaborate in. And so when it
comes down to that level of crimes we
will not collaborate. We're very clear
on what we will collaborate. But I also
want to point this out because it's
often ignored. I'm off uh someone is
always pointing a mic in my face and
saying hey Eric what are you what are
you going to do about u what um ISIS
doing? That's a federal agency.
I think we're get we're allowing our
federal electors off the hook. I don't
control the rules of the federal
agencies. I don't have I I I have the
city council. That's my job to look at
laws to sign their laws. You know, we're
not asking our federal partners enough.
Hey guys, what are you doing about this?
That's not my job. The enforcement of
immigration is a federal authority,
not a city authority. I'm going to do my
job. I don't control who come across the
border. I control who's in the city when
they are across the border. And I and I
told President Biden this. I said,
"Listen, we have a poorest border." I
went down to El Paso. I went down to the
Darian Gap to uh Ecuador, uh Colombia,
uh Mexico, and I saw the flow, and I saw
how they were telling people the streets
are paved with gold in New York. Why
don't we control the flow? We have
serious uh population issues across our
country. We should be allowing people to
come into the country and say, "Hey,
Kentucky need backstretch workers in the
racing industry. Here's where you're
going for three years and then you could
go wherever you want in the country."
This is a win-win if we handle it
better. We had no control at the border.
We were allowing anyone to come through.
Now that we see a substantial decrease,
we're no longer get longer getting 4,000
people a week into this into this city,
which was just not sustainable.
>> Speaking of crime, the crime stats have
improved a lot in the last couple of
years. The rat I've been monitoring your
war on rats.
>> He's a single issue voter on the rat.
>> I've been very impressed with the war on
rats and I've looked at the stats on 311
calls for rats, etc. Very good. On the
other hand, the city is still dirty.
When I take my kids to the park, only
half the time can I expect to be able to
not even half like find a clean
bathroom, elevators at the subway, still
like, you know, it's this is a worldass
city. Do we just have to again sort of
going back to the thing like is this
inevitable that a city like New York
City has to have it so that we don't
even have clean bathrooms most of the
time? Like speaking like from a family
issue like public childare obviously
incredibly important but there's all
these other things that make it much
more difficult I would think than it
needs to be that I feel like everyone
has just come to accept like yeah we
can't have clean bathrooms in a public
park and
>> I I agree with you 100%. I would never
accept a city where there's disorder
there's chaos and there's dirt. I just
don't remember when I came into office
many people don't realize that we had
encampments in our subway system. It was
the worst of the COVID pandemic. But
>> yeah, all over. We had on long highways.
I my January and February, I went out
and there's still pictures that someone
sent me the other day. I went out and
visited people that were living in
encampments and I saw that when I walked
in and crawled in their encampments and
their boxes and their tents. I saw stale
food, human waste, drug palia. Many of
them was dealing with schizophrenic
behavior, bipolar. And I went back to
the team and said, "We can't the city
can't live this way. Go look at Los
Angeles, San Francisco, Portland. Go
look at these other cities. You don't
see that here because I had a zero
tolerance. And once we dealt with the
encampments, once we dealt with the
crimes, u removing 22,000 illegal guns
off our streets, 100,000 ghost vehicles,
illegal vehicles that were running our
streets, on we once we dealt with that,
now we move into the next lay layer. uh
we've immediately went after the the the
rodents in our city which was just
really an indicator of just total uh
uncleanliness in the city. Now we put in
place a 1,200 person quality of life
team, our Q team we call it, that's
going after those nagging issues. I
still run ride around the streets 1 a.m.
2 am in the morning call on my
commissioners when I see an encampment
or I see overflow trash they all tell
you about those horrific calls that they
get from me because we should see it
before you see it. You deserve a clean
bathroom. You deserve to be able to go
to a park where there's no trash on
there. You deserve to not have to worry
about a rodent running across your feet.
You know, this is what you deserve.
These are the basic things that we
deserve. But we had to deal with the
level one issue first, dealing with
getting us out of COVID, dealing with
crime, and then this un unexpected uh uh
crisis of dealing with the migrants and
asylum seekers. You know, people tell us
all the time that uh okay, Eric, you
have to the migrant asylum seekers
behind you. Uh everything is okay. It's
not. We spent $7.7 billion.
500 million of that should have gone to
chronically absent children. A billion
should have gone to building housing for
our seniors. A billion should have gone
to making sure that we um boost up our
department of sanitation. What I'm
trying to share, the long-term rep
repercussions of what we experience is
going to have long-term impacts on our
city
>> on the quality of life issues and crime.
>> I got to say practically every time I'm
in Broadway and Lafayette, the station,
which is pretty often,
>> there are people shooting up in the
corner. I literally went down the
stairway the other day and a guy was
standing there shooting himself up in
the arm and I was three inches away from
him. That was uncomfortable. That
happens all the time and no one seems to
be doing anything about it. What exactly
is the obstacle to improving some of
these issues? Is it budget? Is it
enforcement? What is it?
>> You know, and and I hate it. I hate it
when I see someone uh what we call
nodding on the street. Exactly. when I
see someone. We were up at the hub the
other day. Uh was just a state of total
disrepair until we got in there and
zoomed in. We put in place what we call
our uh path team and our scout teams.
And I spent a lot of time in the subway
system and the goal is how do you talk
people off the system? Now, we were able
to take 8,500 people off our system that
was living on our system. But I cannot
tell you how much a challenge it is
dealing with people who uh dealing with
severe mental health issues. They don't
know they need care. Uh that is why I
was trying to get Albany to pass the
involuntary removal bill because there
are people who are harmful to themselves
and harmful to others and we have to
take them inside. We have to bring them
inside. And many people just have a
philosophical disagreement with me on
this issue. Uh, I want to say that if if
you are using drug use, we need to take
you inside. If you are 30°ree weather,
you you don't have on shoes, you you
know, you have saw your clothing, you're
yelling and screaming. I we have to talk
them off the ledge now and hope that
they after building trust and the scout
team are doing an amazing job, but it it
takes longer and you see those repeated
offenders over and over again. Uh but
our goal is to go after and it's illegal
to shoot up drugs in public. Uh but when
you do a real crackdown, you get a lot
of heat that we're criminalizing drugs
cuz drugs is, you know, um addiction is
a disease. So we're trying to use the
right balance, but we are far more uh
encountering people than others would
like us to do. We get a lot of
complaints because we encounter people
who are injecting themselves with drugs,
people who are dealing with severe
mental health illness. And I got to
really ignore that noise for the better
public overall public safety of the
city.
[Music]
Hotel prices in New York City are
insane. And part of it seems to be this
sort of opposition to hotel expansion
both from the owners of existing hotels
and from unions. Also, you can't do
Airbnb, but whatever. I I care less
about that. When you think about like
the vitality of New York City, like do
you have any vision like how to break
this impass or do we just have to accept
that as much as the city is going to
grow that the number of the capacity for
our ability to take in tourism is just
going to be sort of capped by our
inability to build any new hotels?
>> We need to build more and we're at the
uh prepandemic levels. Our hotel
industry is doing well. I think you know
the mere fact we have 65 million
tourists that came in last year. Uh this
is still the hot spot. People still
>> How's New York City? How's this summer
shaping up
>> this summer
>> from tourism perspective?
>> Not as not the levels we have. I think
some of the conversation around tariffs,
some of the conversations um impacted
our uh tourism, particularly some of our
domestic tourists. We used to get a lot
of tourists from uh Canada and we never
really recovered the way we should have
our our Asian market. Chinese were they
were a major part of our tourism, but
we're going to we're going to bounce
back. We had a we had a hit during COVID
and we were able to recover after CO and
this is still a good product. You know,
people want to come here. I love it
here.
>> Yes. And we we believe the tourist the
hotel industry is going to continue to
grow. You know, some bumps in the roads.
We're looking at a conversation around
what we could do with our hotel tax.
>> Yeah. How do we get more rooms though?
>> That's the goal. We got to build more.
We have to encourage more uh building.
There were certain laws that were put in
place previously about getting and
receiving uh the permits to build. We
have to do a real analysis of how do we
encourage to get more rooms uh in the
city.
>> I have one more question.
>> Yes,
>> this is my most important one possibly
and something I've always wondered um a
great mystery of our times. But in the
course of prepping for this interview,
Joe and I watched a lot of your previous
interviews, your previous videos. I was
watching your famous contraband video.
>> Mhm.
Where in the world did you get a used
crackpipe
>> to use as a prop in that video?
>> That that was and actually I'm going
remake that video to modern times. Uh
when I did that first video, for those
who who are not aware, it was a video
showing how you should look in your
child's room for drugs. When I did the
first video and still today, uh people
say, "Oh, you know, how can you do that?
That's hard on children." You know many
people don't know that if someone is
selling drugs in your home when the
police come they they come in and do a
raid everyone goes grandmother
grandfather children go to ACS families
are disrupted and we need to take
control of our homes now it may not be
in your home you know in your home this
is something that you don't have to even
worry about or possibly I don't have to
worry about it with Jordan my child but
when you go to many of the inner cities
with violent is rampant and drugs are
pervasive. Uh when we did that video,
the number of responses people gave me
was like, no, wow, I didn't know that.
And so that that broke crack pike back
then when I did it, it was just about
everywhere. Like you see in certain
communities, you see uh needles that
>> Did you just pick one up off the street
or something?
>> Off the street.
>> Oh my gosh. Okay, last question. A bunch
of people threw gave Andrew Como tons of
money and it came up totally short in
the primary. You're still running. Yes.
>> A, would you consider in September
dropping out if you're fourth in the
polls or third in the polls? And B, why
should anyone donate to your campaign or
your uh super PAC given how ineffective
those dollars seem to be in the
Democratic primary?
>> Well, it wasn't in ineffective. Uh we in
the last filing we were raised 1.5
million.
>> No, the money given to Cuomo was totally
ineffective because he got trounced. So
why should anyone feel that any
political giving is going to be useful
in this environment?
>> And money is important. It's
unfortunate. I am probably the only
elected official that has stated over
and over again, we need to take money
out of politics completely. We should
give a dollar amount to every candidate.
They can only spend that dollar amount
and that's it. There's no reason we
should be calling up individuals asking
for money. But that's the nature of the
beast. And so when you look at it, those
month those dollars are are used for
important reasons because television is
extremely expensive. Your your staff is
cost money, etc. The he didn't lose
because of of the shortage of dollars.
He used he lost because he did not want
to be mayor. Mayor New York City is not
a consolation prize. You know, you step
down as governor and then you wake up
one day and you say, "Okay, I want to do
a consolation prize and run to be the
mayor of the city of New York." And it
was obvious. You don't come out on
weekends. You don't do this. Don't sit
down to speak on podcasts or interviews.
You live in a bubble. He always lived in
a bubble. Governor's son went on to
become AG, went on to become governor.
And then there's another pattern that a
lot of people are ignoring. Uh what he
feels about black men who are elected.
Nobody wants to talk about this. He did
it to K McCall. When Carl McCoy ran to
be the first black governor, Andrew
Cuomo got in the race, uh, sabotaged his
campaign. He did it to Charlie King.
Charlie King was running to be attorney
general, raised $5 million, was one of
the leading candidates. He got in,
pushed Charlie King out. He did it to
David Patterson. David was going to run
for reelection. He decided to sabotage
his campaign and moved him out. Now he's
trying to do the same thing for me. And
like you said, your audience needs to
really understand what happened. I ran
for independent. Everyone knew I was
running for independent. Everybody
thought I was foolish for doing so, not
understanding that the only mayors that
have won on the independent line was
city mayors. We knew that Mandani was
going to be on the general election
ballot on the Rookens family line. Why
did Andrew throw his name into it if he
was in the primary? He did it because he
was thought he could follow the same
process that he's done for a long time.
So, let's look at the polls. The polls
had him up for 40 points. 40 points. He
sent out a poll through his uh staffers
the day before the election that he was
up 10 points. He lost by 13 points.
>> Yeah.
>> How could we trust when you have an un
uh expected voting environment right
now? This voting this vote is going to
depend on new voters and everyone is
talking about the energy on the Madani
camp. 9% of the voters.
>> 2.5 million Democrats haven't voted yet.
A million independents haven't voted
yet. Several hundred thousand republics
have been voted. Never in my history of
politics have I seen the energy around
the stop Madani movement coming from my
bodega owners, coming from my small
property owners, coming from my Jewish
community, coming from my former former
Soviet and and socialist black
constituents that are here right now say
they don't want to go backwards. So I
said it before, if you look at some of
the old tapes, I said this is going to
be the most exciting mayoral race in the
history of this city. I knew it in um 7
covering politics.
>> That's right. Where were you actually
the night of the Democratic primary and
what was your reaction when Mum Donnie
won? Were you like, "Oh, I expected this
because of all the reasons you just laid
out about, if I'm trying to think about
it, I think I was in the bed sleeping. I
knew what the outcome was going to be. I
said 6 months before the primary that
Madani was going to win." And um all I
had to do was wake up uh to I had an
early day. Yeah, things to do in the
city or I think we had a storm that day.
I could have been going around the city
looking at some of the rain sites. Uh,
you know, you think about I always use
sports as an analogy. Uh, you know, uh,
I have the crown and just the thought
that Andrew is going to tell the second
sitting mayor, second mayor of color
that I should step aside for him. I
mean, that's the highest level of
arrogance, you know, during my difficult
moments. COVID, migrants, asylum seeker,
law affair. I didn't step down. I
stepped up. I I said I was elected to
serve this city. No matter what I had to
face, I was going to live up to my
commitment. He didn't do that. When it
got hot, he left. He abandoned his
obligation for the city of New York. I
would never do that to the city. I
didn't abandon it as a police officer.
I'm not going to abandon it as the
mayor.
>> You and our producer, Kell, were the
only two who knew 6 months earlier that
uh I'm done. He was going to win. Eric
Adams, thank you so much for uh coming
on OddLots. Really appreciate the chance
to chat.
>> Thank you very much.
>> Thanks.
>> Can Joe call you if he sees a rat?
>> Yeah,
I will. No, thank you so much. That was
a lot of fun. Thank you. Thank you so
much.
>> Enjoyed it.
[Music]
>> Tracy, I'm glad we finally got a chance
to speak to the mayor. I've never talked
to uh never talked to him before.
>> Uh no, neither have I. I am enjoying
this transition. I do think it's a
really interesting New York is obviously
a really interesting petri dish in which
to experiment with a lot of economic
policies and it sort of solidifies a lot
of the trends we've been talking about
over the years including affordable
housing, taxation, things like that. I
liked your question about when is there
some magic line
>> from which progressive taxation becomes
socialism, right? And I actually think
like this is a question for a lot of
people including Manny etc. like is
there like what actually like
constitutes like an acceptable or an
ideal level of redistribution because
obviously you know uh Mayor Adams was
talking about you know socialism has has
failed everywhere as as as he asserted
and yet an important element of New York
City is the money that is uh raised from
wealthy New Yorkers to as he put it you
know put a put money back into people's
pockets to make the city more affordable
>> right so at the moment that's optional
billionaires can choose to do it. But I
mean, if you think it's a good thing,
then why not make it, you know,
potentially maybe mandatory at some
higher level maybe,
>> right? And why does it have to just be
billionaires? Because also there are a
lot of people who are not billionaires
who are also very wealthy and that
everyone just talks about billionaires,
which I think is an important element of
this uh conversation. You know, I do
think that like there is this certain
degree to which some of the pathologies
of the city are just taken as like it's
New York City and because it's deal and
this is like what you do. So it's like
and this is like these are the costs. So
of course it's going to take years to
figure out whether we're going to use a
specific plot of land that is contested
and turn it into housing. Of course,
it's going to there's going to be a
certain level of public drug consumption
and rats, although the rats have
declined and broken bathrooms and stuff
like that. It does feel like in the
discourse, we just sort of accept that
because it's New York City that there
are certain things that are just going
to be like subpar or actively hostile.
again like from a family perspective
like it really is not good at all that
it's so hard frequently to find a
bathroom in a public area. I will just
say here, I mean, other major cities in
the world do it differently, right? Like
you go to a place like Tokyo, you do not
see people nodding off in the street.
And it kind of blows my mind also that
New York still has this extremely high
tax rate and a lot of these quality of
life issues. But anyway,
>> there's plenty more to talk about if he
wins re-election.
>> We'll have him back on.
>> We'll definitely we'll definitely have
him back on to uh talk about how all of
these things are going.
>> All right. Shall we leave it there?
>> Let's leave it there. This has been
another episode of the Odd Thoughts
podcast. I'm Tracy Aloway. You can
follow me at Tracy Alaway.
>> And I'm Jill Weisenthal. You can follow
me at the stalwart. Follow Mayor Eric
Adams. He's at NYC Mayor. Follow our
producers Kerman Rodriguez at Carmen
Arman Dash Bennett at Dashbot and
Kellbrooks at Kellbrooks. More OddLots
content, go to bloomberg.com/odlots.
We have the daily newsletter and all of
our episodes. And you can chat about all
of these topics 247 in our Discord,
discord.gg/odlotss.
And if you enjoy OddLots, if you enjoy
our turn into local New York politics,
then please leave us a positive review
on your favorite podcast platform. And
remember, if you are a Bloomberg
subscriber, you can listen to all of our
episodes absolutely adree. All you need
to do is find the Bloomberg channel on
Apple Podcast and follow the
instructions there. Thanks for
listening.
[Music]